--- 
layout: post
title: Cell Phone + Bluetooth = Webcam!
tags: smartcam
---

While I'm posting the instructions specifically for Linux boxes, a little perseverance should
have you running it on any box that's supported! What you'll need is:
 
   * A Symbian/Android/Windows Mobile 6 Phone
   * The [Smartcam DEB](http://sourceforge.net/projects/smartcam/files/smartcam_linux/smartcam_linux_v_1.4.0/smartcam_1.4.0_i386.deb/download).
   * The [Smartcam Source](http://sourceforge.net/projects/smartcam/files/smartcam_linux/smartcam_linux_v_1.4.0/smartcam-1.4.0.tar.gz/download).
   * The file for your cell phone, you can select the one you need from [here](http://sourceforge.net/projects/smartcam/files/).
   * The [Smartcam Kernel Module Patch](http://pastebin.com/8wKNv5cP).

## Get It Running

   * Install the Smartcam DEB (a simple double-click should work in most cases).
   * Extract the source tarball to its own folder; a Right-click --> "Extract Here"
     should work.
   * Copy the downloaded patch to the `driver_src` directory.
   * Open up a terminal and run these commands:

{% highlight bash %}
$ cd /path/to/the_extracted_smartcam_source/
$ cd driver_src
$ patch -p0 < smartcam.patch
$ sudo make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd`
$ sudo modprobe videodev
$ sudo insmod smartcam.ko
{% endhighlight %}

   * Start Smartcam!

## Known Issues

   * The `patch -p0 < smartcam.patch` command fails with some weird error: You may not have
     `patch` installed. A simple `sudo apt-get install patch` should do the trick.

   * The `make` command fails after barfing
     all over my terminal: You probably don't have a number of dependencies required
     to compile kernel modules. While I could tell you to install every build tool possible and
     ensure you get past this block, it really doesn't make sense. Take a closer look at the
     output on your terminal and note down statements that indicate specific programs not available. Then just run a sudo apt-get install  and give it another go! If all else fails, Google! Dependency problems crop up all the time.

   * The installation worked but Smartcam just doesn't show up: You need to run 
     `sudo modprobe videodev` and `sudo insmod smartcam.ko` every time you intend to start
     Smartcam. This loads the kernel modules into memory for the current session, so you
     need not re-run the commands once you've done that for your current session. You'll need
     to switch on the bluetooth on your computer before you start Smartcam!
